Dr Harris (applicant) will be based at the UCL Institute of Health Informatics (IHI), supported by it's Clinical Research Informatics Unit (CRIU), and backed by the UCL/UCLH BRC. IHI is led by Professor Harry Hemingway who is the Research Director for Health Data Research UK that brings together 5 London universities (UCL, Imperial College London, Kings College London, Queen Mary University London and London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine) in partnerships for data science for health. Professor Hemingway's track record is outstanding with an H-index of >70, and more than £25 million in research funding.
The IHI is ranked #1 in the UK for highly cited papers in medical informatics (according to RAND) and according to Health-XL is joint #1 in Europe for the number of digital health publications. It also delivers the largest health informatics training programme in the UK, and hosts the new UCL Centre for Doctoral training in AI-enabled Healthcare systems. 
The CRIU bridges the academic activity of the IHI with the clinical activities of UCLH. The integrated electronic record delivery programme has made UCLH digitally mature, but the CRIU's role is to make UCLH/UCL _analytically_ mature (as per Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society). It is the only such unit in the NHS. It was founded in 2017 under Professor Folkert Asselbergs (Precision Medicine, H-index 61 and > £35 million in current research funding) who will directly supervise Dr Harris. 
This intersection of academic expertise with a major teaching hospital that is already digitally mature and rapidly ascending the digital maturity scale makes this the perfect environment for this work.
Moreover, Dr Harris is also uniquely positioned to profit from two longstanding collaborations at UCL with Professors Singer and Moonesinghe. Professor Singer was Dr Harris' PhD supervisor, and remains his long term mentor. He is an NIHR Senior Investigator, and leads the Critical Care Health Informatics Collaborative (see attached letter of support). Professor Moonesinghe and Dr Harris have collaborated for more than a decade. Most recently they have been co-investigators on SNAP-2/EpiCCS that ran a one week snapshot audit of more than 245 hospitals and 20,000 patients. She now runs the Peri-operative Quality Improvement Programme, and her experience in mixed methods research will be invaluable as we build the qualitative evidence for REMAP-Nudge.