## Statement describing role as a mentor

In my role as mentor and director of the Clinical Research Informatics unit and Professor for Precison Medicine, I will provide Steve with the necessary environment to conduct the proposed programme of work, and develop as a senior academic leader.
In particular, supporting Steve in pre-processing the needed data through support by our Data management team of the Clinical Research Informatics Unit (CRIU) and provide resources to build the clinical decision support tool within our electronic health record by EPIC research architects. As academic lead in precision medicine, I will mentor and support Steve on the scientific aspects of the current proposal. Specifically, how to design an electronic health record based trial (e.g. randomisation, missing data, linkage, text miming) to evaluate the value of the nudge-randomisation on clinical behaviour, and therefore patient outcomes.
At University College London, we have a wide range of mentoring programs, leadership modules that we can offer to Steve to develop himself as leader in this exciting and fast moving field of research. As part of our CDT program students will be recruited to work with Steve in his work and give him the needed experience in supervising students. At the Institute of Health Informatics courses are available to train Steve how to supervise students. Further data science training will be available are given to provide Steve the necessary tools to conduct his study at the highest scientific standards. Finally, Steve will play an key role in the CRIU, and with Prof Harry Hemingway, the wider informatics landscape of Health Data Research UK.

## Comment on personal view of applicant and research project/programme

Steve Harris is an exceptional individual with a diverse skill set. Next to being an active practicing clinician, Steve has co-led the Critical Care Health Informatics programme, and built and developed his own research group here at IHI. He is now co-lead of the IHI Translational Data Science theme. He has assembled a productive collaboration with the UCL Research Software Engineering team, and now sits on the UCL Clinical Informatics Collaborative board. This pan-BRC body brings together the informatics programmes at UCLH, Moorfields Eye Hospital and Great Ormond Street Hospital.
He has won >£2.5m in grant funding from the UCLH Charity to build the Experimental Medicine Application Platform (EMAP) that places a realtime data science platform _inside_ the NHS. This protects patient privacy by championing 'code to data' rather than 'data to code' approach. The platform builds on modern interoperable health care standards with the ambition of multi-site collaboration such as outlined in this proposal.
We are enthusiastic to see the critical care theme now partnering with Prof Ramani Moonesinghe in peri-operative medicine. We are even more enthusiastic to see the informatics research being taken in a translational direction. This programme of work will complement existing cardiovascular embedded clinical trials that are emulating partner work at Yale (Risk EValuation And Its Impact on ClinicAL Decision Making and Outcomes in Heart Failure (REVeAL-HF)). 
As such I offer my full support, and believe that through this grant Steve will transition to a senior position here at IHI.
 